# clRNG Library

A library for uniform random number generation in OpenCL.

*Streams* of random numbers act as virtual random number generators.
They can be created on the host computer in unlimited numbers, and then used 
either on the host or on computing devices by work items to generate random numbers.
Each stream also has equally-spaced substreams, which are occasionally useful.
The API is currently implemented for four different RNGs, namely the 
MRG31k3p, MRG32k3a, LFSR113 and Philox-4×32-10 generators.

#### Documentation

- [**HTML Documentation**  
  (generated with Doxygen)](http://clmathlibraries.github.io/clRNG/htmldocs/index.html)
- [**Tutorial Document**  
  *clRNG*: A Random Number API with Multiple Streams for OpenCL](http://clmathlibraries.github.io/clRNG/docs/clrng-api.pdf)

## Building

Before configuring and building the library, make sure an OpenCL software
development kit is available on your platform.


### Under Linux

Run:

    cmake src
    make
    make install

By default, `make install` packages the files necessary for distribution of the
library in the `package` subdirectory.


## Installing

The environment variable `CLRNG_ROOT` must be pointed to the root of the
packaged files, or more specifically, the directory that contains the `include`
and `cl` subdirectories.

Also make sure that the clRNG shared library can be found by the dynamic
linker.  The location of the shared library can depend on the platform.  If you
installed the library on a 64-bit Linux platform, it can normally be found
under the `lib64` subdirectory of the installation directory.


### Under Linux

On a 64-bit Linux platform with a Bash-compatible shell, if the current
directory is that in which you ran `cmake src`, you can update the necessary
environment variables by typing:

    export CLRNG_ROOT=$PWD/package
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$CLRNG_ROOT/lib64:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH

Then, you can check that everything works correctly by executing the unit tests
with:

    $CLRNG_ROOT/bin/CTest


## Examples

Examples can be found in `src/client`.
The compiled client program examples can be found under the `bin` subdirectory
of the installation package (`$CLRNG_ROOT/bin` under Linux).
Note that the examples expect an OpenCL GPU device to be available.


## Building the documentation manually

The documentation can be generated by running `make` from within the `doc`
directory.  This requires Doxygen to be installed.
